refactor(docs): mocking restructure (#441)
vitest-dev/vitest: docs/guide/mocking.md

# Mocking
When writing tests it's only a matter of time before you need to create 'fake' version of an internal- or external service. This is commonly referred to as **mocking**. Vitest provides utility functions to help you out through it's **vi** helper. You can `import { vi } from 'vitest'` or access it **globally** (when [global configuration](../config/#global) is **enabled**).

> > Always remember to clear or restore mocks before or after each test run to save head scratching along the line! See [](../config/#mockreset)

Author: Thanks for rephrasing, much clearer this way! 

Ah sweet I was wondering where they got those fancy "callouts" from 😬

### Example

```js
import { afterEach, describe, expect, it, vi } from 'vitest'

const businessHours = [9, 17]

const purchase = () => {
  const currentHour = new Date().getHours()
  const [open, close] = businessHours

  if (currentHour > open && currentHour < close) {
    return { message: 'Success' }
  }

  return { message: 'Error' }
};

describe('purchasing flow', () => {
  afterEach(() => {
    // restoring date after each test run
    vi.restoreCurrentDate()
  });

  it('allows purchases within business hours', () => {
    // set hour within business hours
    const date = new Date(2000, 1, 1, 13)
    vi.mockCurrentDate(date)

    // access Date.now() will result in the date set above
    expect(purchase()).toEqual({ message: 'Success' })
  })

  it('disallows purchases outside of business hours', () => {
    // set hour outside business hours
    const date = new Date(2000, 1, 1, 19)
    vi.mockCurrentDate(date)

    // access Date.now() will result in the date set above
    expect(purchase()).toEqual({ message: 'Error' })
  })
})
```

## Functions

> Mock functions (or "spies") observe functions, that are invoked in some other code, allowing you to test its arguments, output or even redeclare its implementation.

Reviewer: Mocks and spies aren't quite the same; a spy watches and can verify that something has happened (you can spy on `console.log`, for instance), whereas a mock is a fake version of something, often with a spy attached. I'd disconnect the concepts here; focus on spying on existing functions first, then calling a spy function, then mocking functions entirely, and update the example accordingly.

Author: Thanks I will make sure the differences between them becomes more clear. I wasn't sure what the most optimal level of handholding would be but what you are saying makes a lot of sense!

  ],
  getLatest, // can also be a `getter or setter if supported`
}

describe('reading messages', () => {
  afterEach(() => {
    vi.restoreAllMocks()
  })

  it('should get the latest message with a spy', () => {
    const spy = vi.spyOn(messages, 'getLatest')
    expect(spy.getMockName()).toEqual('getLatest')

    expect(messages.getLatest()).toEqual(
      messages.items[messages.items.length - 1]
    );

    expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1)

    spy.mockImplementationOnce(() => 'access-restricted')
    expect(messages.getLatest()).toEqual('access-restricted')

    expect(spy).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(2)
  });

  it('should get with a mock', () => {
    const mock = vi.fn().mockImplementation(getLatest)

    expect(mock()).toEqual(messages.items[messages.items.length - 1])
    expect(mock).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1)

    mock.mockImplementationOnce(() => 'access-restricted')
    expect(mock()).toEqual('access-restricted')

    expect(mock).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(2)

    expect(mock()).toEqual(messages.items[messages.items.length - 1])
    expect(mock).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(3)
  })
})
```

### More

- [Jest's Mock Functions](https://jestjs.io/docs/mock-function-api)

## Modules

> Mock modules observe third-party-libraries, that are invoked in some other code, allowing you to test arguments, output or even redeclare its implementation.

Reviewer: Can we have more of a usecase-based explanation as to why someone would want to do this?

Author: I was struggling a bit coming up with an example that wouldn't be too framework specific, but would still be very use-cased focused.  I didn't want to go the obvious route of axios or fetch (as we do not recommend `mocking` those in the next section 😁 ). A router example would be next on my list but would also contain a lot of framework (or even library specific) API in the example.

So I'm open to suggestions here (if anyone has any) 🙂

Reviewer: What about something like mocking a DB library? Or an authorized SDK? Something where mocking just the request isn't sufficient (I think of like Firebase's Firestore which needs a separate emulator and auth to work and the network requests it makes are opaque; you could just mock the module instead to test data in and out)

Author: I've updated the example and went for the db one but I do think this is now the only example that won't run out of the box (a.k.a copy pasted into vite.dev/new) and I'm not sure if this makes things clearer, but it is a more usecase focussed example. Let me know what you think 👌

  rest.get('https://rest-endpoint.example/path/to/posts', (req, res, ctx) => {
    return res(ctx.status(200), ctx.json(posts))
  }),
]

const graphqlHandlers = [
  graphql.query('https://graphql-endpoint.example/api/v1/posts', (req, res, ctx) => {
    return res(ctx.data(posts))
  }),
]

const server = setupServer(...restHandlers, ...graphqlHandlers)

// Start server before all tests
beforeAll(() => server.listen({ onUnhandledRequest: 'error' }))

//  Close server after all tests
afterAll(() => server.close())

// Reset handlers after each test `important for test isolation`
afterEach(() => server.resetHandlers())
```

> Configuring the server with `onUnhandleRequest: 'error'` ensures that an error is thrown whenever there is a request that does not have a corresponding request handler.

### Example

We have a full working example which uses MSW: [React Testing with MSW](https://github.com/vitest-dev/vitest/tree/main/test/react-testing-lib-msw).

### More
There is much more to MSW. You can access cookies and query parameters, define mock error responses, and much more! To see all you can do with MSW, read [their documentation](https://mswjs.io/docs/recipes).

## Timers

> Whenever we test code that involves timeOuts or intervals, instead of having our tests it wait out or time-out. We can speed up our tests by using 'fake timers'. You can mock calls to `setTimeout` and `setInterval` easily to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever we test code that involves `timeOut`s or intervals, instead of having our tests it wait out or time-out. We can speed up our tests by using "fake" timers by mocking calls to `setTimeout` and `setInterval`, too.
```
